may 7th was the date for the
recreational fishing alliances town hall
meeting held at the Freeport rec center
on Long Island New York before the
meeting I had a chance to talk to Jim
donofrio the executive director of the
RFA and Mark Molitor chairman of the New
York State Chapter the Magnuson
fisheries conservation and management
act commonly called Magnuson is the
federal fisheries law that manages all
our fisheries and eight regions of the
country and the impact that has on our
summer flounder fishery in particular in
this region here in the mid-atlantic and
northeast is that there are some
arbitrary provisions in there for
rebuilding fisheries that were listed is
over fished at one time and these
arbitrary provisions need to be
addressed by the members of Congress who
put them in there and to be removed so
what we had asked for during the
reauthorization process of Magnuson was
to have a law that encouraged rebuilding
because all of us are for rebuilding
stocks to to good levels healthy levels
but as long as we're showing progress
allow access to anglers right now the
way the law is written it is so rigid
that even though rebuilding is occurring
in his progress being made were held to
an arbitrary deadline which actually
shuts us out of the fishery or gives us
a fishery like we have in New York where
we're over 20 inches in size and a
shortened season we well we got here
today with the flounder fishery and
other fishers in particular but summer
flounder being like the canary in a coal
mine here for us is through a Magnuson
act that is so rigid has arbitrary
deadlines and also up against fishery
management plans that make no sense most
of this has to be changed the science is
bad we have to improve the science we
have to also change the way we manage
recreational fisheries they account for
our fish in a number in a number of
pounds and it should be amount of fish
caught not pounds because every year we
go up a half inch or an inch we're
actually catching more poundage but
catching less fish so what were fishing
occurs automatically so we're being
punished by the system that's trying to
create conservation well the groups that
made it very difficult started back in
the reauthorization when we call the
sustainable fisheries act back in 1996
and that was all funded by the Pew
Charitable Trust in Philadelphia they
formed the marine
conservation network and what they did
is they asked many recreational groups
and commercial groups to join a network
but what they're doing is they're using
their good names and actually getting
the Pew agenda cross which is to further
restrict access and shut down fishing
that's their goal and you can see by the
proposals for marine closures around the
country the newest one being what they
call the islands in the stream in the
Gulf of Mexico that's a closure in the
Gulf of Mexico this is all being
proposed by pew this is their dream land
state of having marine petting zoos out
there in the ocean and not allowing
access so P we see as the biz the big
800-pound gorilla that's leading this
charge here to take everybody out of
fishing and they there's other groups
that are that are working against us but
most of them are funded by p 0 well so
the biggest challenge to elaborate a
little bit about what Jimmy talked about
was the fact that not only do we have to
fight the battle against the
environmental organizations and pew
funded organizations but we also have
the challenges of fighting against other
fishing organizations you know who have
different slightly different points of
view than the RFA does biggest challenge
that we see both on a state level as
well as on the national level is our
ability to unify fisherman with a common
crawl cause try to eliminate as much of
special interests as we can to fight the
greater good if you will and that's
that's a common theme in our biggest
challenge with driving membership
driving dollars driving ability in
Washington to get anything done is that
unified voice that doesn't exist today I
am a recreational fisherman I've been a
recreational fisherman I'm not a
political guy I have a job I have a
family I started the new york RF a
chapter about four years ago with a
couple of other fishermen it's a
grassroots organization like all
grassroots organizations we need
assistance from fishermen from people
interested in protecting the fishery and
protecting their rights to fish so what
can you do come out give us some
assistance volunteer join the RFA
organization to happen help us fight the
battle in Washington and in Albany and
in other state capitals but more
importantly come out volunteer give us
your time let's ensure that not only we
have fish to catch for our children but
also the right for our kids to fish
they get older the RFA is a political
action organization we're a 501 c 4
nonprofit our mission is to protect the
rights of anglers protect the jobs in
the recreational marine industry and to
ensure sustainable use of our valuable
marine resources from Freeport Long
Island Tim C Smith reporting